See also:

http://piratepad.net/bricolabspixelache
http://piratepad.net/bricolacheplan
http://piratepad.net/bricolachevenues
http://piratepad.net/bricolacheshort


see http://piratepad.net/briconversations for the call to dialogues for the Brico Reader

---

Bricolabs  is an open network with members distributed worldwide. It is home for a  number of innovative ideas and practices focused on free/open sharing  of knowledge and information. Bricolabs is currently organising part of  the Pixelache Helsinki 2013 programme.

---

The north/south divide... is it really there?

Bricolabs is an open network with members distributed worldwide. It is home for a number of innovative ideas and practices focused on free/open sharing of knowledge and information. Bricolabs is currently organising part of the Pixelache Helsinki 2013 programme.

North/south references may limit the understanding of the world in terms of conventional geopolitics. Such a perspective can lead to definitions about where north and south are in relation to a specific observing point. What if we allow ourselves to follow affective field lines instead? Most of our the telecommunication infrastructure is navigating simultaneously in multiple directions. Cultural identities are being constantly deconstructed. What used to be seen as north has its own south within, and vice-versa.

As a proposal for the 2013 edition of Pixelache Helsinki, we suggest that accepting the freedom to ignore borders is indeed a good way to effectively perform their disappearance. Bricolabs will engage its actors and participants into the philosophies of deep resonant networking and anti-disciplinary collaboration. We want to transmit and share an urgency for recognizing the work of artists, developers, thinkers - redefining geophysical and virtual  ecologies of their practices, interventions, theories, researches as  well as methodologies of a wide technological spectrum of open source models.

Among relevant resonant practices is the worldwide emergence of hackerspaces, experimental labs and other similar formations - spaces for the production and research of media art, open infrastructures, diybio, collaborative methodologies and plenty of other themes - but also places in which people with very diverse backgrounds can spend time together.

[develop further: deep resonant networking opposing to geograhical boundaries, anti-disciplinary collab opposing to disciplinary boundaries]

Ctrl+C from other pads:

what lies on the boundary between north and south? is there a space in the middle? 

1) Panels on  multidirectional collaboration and free/libre/open technologies.  Presentation of specific projects related to these themes. The selection  of the projects to be presented will happen in the Bricolabs mailing  list (integrated with the overall programme of Pixelache, and with an  eye on budget and possible partnerships for funding travel expenses).  The panels can take place both in Helsinki and Tallin.

2)  Online happening: internet chat and cross-stream between Bricolabs  members and groups in different parts of the world. Possible partners  are Casa de Cultura Tainã in Campinas, Ubalab in Brazil; Southern Voices  in Manchester UK, and plenty of other nodes related to bricolabs.

3)  Public interventions/outreach (talks, performances, exhibitions,  workshops) dealing with DIY/DIWO culture and technologies based upon  free/libre/open circulation of information. Maybe doing something in the  ferry between Tallin and Helsinki.

4) A meeting of the Bricolabs network, to further develop collaborative projects and exchange opportunities/knowledge/resources.


Rise of decentralized  communities, which enable forms of knowledge   transference which is  based on deterritorialization /Lab   environments/virtual spaces for  collaboration, do open a vast area of  an  almost ideological struggle,  which dictate this necessity, thus of  an  irreversible need for open  structures. 

Collaborative   environments where meetings are virtual and based on peer-to-peer    connectivity are the only means to negotiate common frameworks on    developing relations, projects and networked infrastructure. 


seeing   Bricolabs as network infrastructure, the need to create/propose   third-ways, when it comes to education,  arises almost as an emergency,   otherwise we are at risk of considering  the paradoxical relationship   between study and labor as normal .

In   fact being a professional artist is one of the most blatant examples,    whether the training is technical or academic most artists can’t easily  find themselves a position, and that’s is simply art itself does not    have a defined role in –productive- society, driving emergent artist to   a  practice that tends to reach benefits from cultural policies or   simply  must occupy the grey-areas in other fields –formal education-   before  succumbing to the creative industry.

Is   not chance that informal education has become a more common practice    in order to overcome such deficiencies, but is also true that possible    gains in quality and relevance resulting from such programs loose  their   power due lack of validation and its subsequent non  representativeness   in the labor-market; there should be a revalidation  of a transmission  model  based on non-profitable exchange of  knowledge  (after all this is  the  way we used to learn for ages before  religious and capital  restrictions).


Thematicconstellation  of working groups where decentralized collaborative environments is  being enabled this time thru a f2f process/production 


deep resonant networks

anti-disciplinary collaboration

