See also:

http://piratepad.net/bricolabspixelache
http://piratepad.net/bricolacheplan
http://piratepad.net/bricolachevenues
http://piratepad.net/bricolachetext

Bricolabs (http://bricolabs.net) is a fluid network created in 2006 to investigate - from a critical and creative perspective - the loop of free/libre/open content, software and hardware for community applications. Bricolabs promotes open debate and critical making on such themes, between people with diverse backgrounds, in areas of expertise from Latin America, Europe, Asia and North America. Special attention is given to affective networking as a shared value. 

Responding in a collaborative fashion to the call to reflect on the theme "Facing North - Facing South," Bricolabs is currently planning, organising and developing part of the Pixelache Helsinki 2013 programme. Bricolabs wants to bring a multilayer perspective to trans-local networking, engaging the participants of Pixelache 2013 in new ways of being as well as new ways of doing things together. Bricolabs proposes a critical perspective on the usual north/south dichotomy, interested and rooted in deep resonant networks where borders are seldom taken into account. This is as true for geographic boundaries as it is for disciplinary ones – recently Bricolabs members have turned their attention to anti-disciplinary collaboration as an escape from the common traps of western/northern paradigms of development.

The Bricolabs programme will include live remote sessions with a number of collaborative groups sharing their perspectives from different parts of the world, as well as an exhibition articulating models of open source culture, translocality, DIWO, and subjective infrastructures. Several practical workshops will be conducted along these same lines. The festival will give Bricolabs members a rare face-to-face opportunity to meet and organise working sessions for particular collaborative projects. Bricolabs will also be facilitating discussions and panels, portraying collective efforts that take place across diverse practices engaging the work of artists, developers, thinkers - thus redefining the geophysical and virtual ecologies of their practices, as well as methodologies in the context of open source models and the theme of the festival.

outline

1 what is bricolabs?
2 what is bricolabs's take on facingnorth/facingsouth?
3 what will bricolabs be doing during pixelache?


2 deep resonant networks 
antidisciplinary collaboration
subjective infrastructures - autonomy vs. connectivity
smell of bricolabs

3 

Conference, people from different parts of the world
Exhibition
Remote sessions: cross-streaming, IRC, etc.
Ferry thing
Working sessions
Workshops


